I want to build a static HTML webpage that is one page and has no moving parts.  I want the colors to be simple, and have a simple font. Make the website top to bottom as described here.


Title:

A solution to gerrymandering using Data Science

Subtitle:

Using K-Means and Gradient Descent to create fair congressional

Project Summary: 

Gerrymandering happens when politicians draw congressional districts in a way that gives their political party an unfair advantage, often devaluing a citizen’s vote or even turning it against their intended representation. In this project, I developed a possible solution using data science and AI techniques, specifically K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) and Gradient Descent. The goal was to create congressional districts automatically, without factoring in people’s votes, beliefs, race, or political ideology, so that the model avoids the human bias that causes gerrymandering. Instead, the model focuses almost entirely on math and population distribution to generate districts that are compact in shape and fair in population.

To test the idea, I first created a small model state called “Coloroming,” with simulated cities and rural areas. KNN was used to place initial district centers by clustering population points, which produced visually clean districts but large population imbalances. To fix this, Gradient Descent was added to fine-tune the districts by adjusting the position and “weight” of each district so population could be shared more evenly. After training, the districts in Coloroming had population errors well below the Supreme Court standard set in Gaffney v. Cummings, showing that the model could reliably produce fair districts.

After that, the model was applied to real states, including Georgia, Louisiana, and Illinois. In each case, the generated districts were closer in population than the real congressional maps and stayed well within legal population deviation limits. While the model does not account for factors like county lines, geography, or minority representation, it shows that unbiased, math-driven districting is possible. With better real-world data and further improvements, this system could help provide fair, un-gerrymandered districts and improve the overall quality of U.S. elections.

Data Results:

There are three states, Louisiana, Illinois, and Georgia. I need each one to have their own block with the current district photo on the left, the redistricted photo in the middle, and a population data table on the right, and a written explanation below. Label them [STATE NAME] Current Districts, [STATE NAME] Redistricted Districts, Population Statistics, and Data Explanation repectively. The explanations are below, the tables HTML code is in another .txt file named "HTMLStateData.txt" You will be able to find the photos with these names:

Georgia:
realGeorgiaDistrictsCensus.png
georgiaPhoto.png

Georgia Explanation:
While Georgia's real-life districts do not look heavily gerrymandered at first glance, Georgia is likely one of the most gerrymandered states in the South. With 14 districts, this state was much more difficult to redistrict. I ran three different attempts, each time slightly improving the algorithm to better handle the redistricting process.

Illinois:
realIllinoisDistrictsCensus.png
illinoisPhoto.png

Illinois Explanation:
Illinois was the most difficult state to redistrict using this algorithm. Because of the high population density in Chicago, many districts are tightly packed around the city, while neighboring rural districts must cover large areas to reach their required population. This put significant stress on the weighting system, which ultimately led me to separate Chicago into its own dataset and run the urban and rural areas independently. As a result, the population error is less consistent than in the other two states, but it still remains within a 1.9% deviation. I am confident that with further improvements—and possibly more computing power—the algorithm could redistrict Illinois without any manual intervention.

Louisiana:
realLouisianaDistrictsCensus.png
louisianaPhoto.png

Louisiana Explanation:
This state's real-life district borders appear more gerrymandered than those of most states and have been accused of gerrymandering for many years. With only six districts, redistricting Louisiana was fairly simple and took the least amount of time out of all the real-life states I have redistricted.



Embed this, make sure it is wide enough, and title it "Original Work"
<iframe src="https://www.kaggle.com/embed/aidanziolo/solving-gerrymandering-with-data-science?kernelSessionId=264571558" height="800" style="margin: 0 auto; width: 100%; max-width: 950px;" frameborder="0" scrolling="auto" title="Solving Gerrymandering With Data Science"></iframe>


Then make a contact footer with this information.
My name:
John Aidan Ziolo

My email:
jaidanziolo@gmail.com

My GitHub:
https://github.com/thatUndefinedGuy

IF THERE IS SOMETHING MISSING OR INFORMATION YOU NEED DO NOT DO ANYTHING, JUST TELL ME